MAME Dynamic Bezels FAQ

V 1.0

By:  RustyDawg37

I want to start this document with a huge thanks to InigoMontoya whom I have interacted with on the The CoinOps Project https://discord.gg/BgYCcgny4eand
and Mortal Kombat Plus https://discord.gg/gYJEeKV9Yn discord servers.  Without his persistent prodding, none of these would exist in their current form. 
I can not be sure that no one has ever done this, in fact I would be surprised if someone hasnt, given the community and possiblities, but the one other time
I attempted something like this I gave up at the MAME documention (due to its readability compared to my comprehension level, not the actual content)
and he refused to stop until it was at least explained to him.  He was gracious enough to explain to me how the layouts worked and provide some early coding
techniques which I still use, and from there I have been off to the races.

Let me say that I am not a programmer or graphical artist by trade and that may shine through if you begin looking through the code and using the layouts.
If you want to contribute, or teach me a thing or two, I am always willing to learn.


1. How do MAME layouts work?

https://docs.mamedev.org/techspecs/layout_files.html

No need to rehash what the experts have to say.


2.  How do these dynamic bezels work?

We have used the documentation, advice from mamedev, and older similar visual tricks in MAME on the internet, to learn how to edit the layout files and use
the MAME layout plugin's scripting capabilities to enable the layouts to trigger graphics onscreen to, in most cases, display movelists and character art
for fighting games.


3. What games have these been made for?

At this time the list of games is as follows:
	
	Cadillacs and Dinosaurs
	Garou
	Killer Instinct
	Mortal Kombat
	Mortal Kombat +
	Mortal Kombat II
	Mortal Kombat II +
	Mortal Kombat 3
	Marvel Super Heroes
	Marvel Super Heroes vs Street Fighter
	Marvel vs Capcom
	NBA Maximum Hangtime
	Primal Rage ( game is technically not working correctly in MAME at last check )
	Samurai Shodown II
	Street Fighter II Champion Edition
	Street Fighter Alpha 3
	Street Fighter III 3rd Strike
	Super Street Fighter II Turbo
	Tekken 3
	Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3
	Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 +
	Vampire Savior 2
	WWF Wrestlemania
	WWF Wrestlefest
	Xmen Children of the Atom
	Xmen vs Streeet Fighter
	
Please note: these are all in varying states and I would consider them all to be in a beta stage at this time.

	
4.  Will there be more made?

I am not going to say no, but i am not knowledgeable about EVERY fighting game.  I would very much like to find some reliable fighting game players, artists and
game testers for input on everything from usability and readability to formatting and general direction.  If you are interested, here is the link to my discord
server https://discord.gg/2QesVywnJx

I have started at least one that I have shelved because I dont think all the moves will fit comfortably and I am not familiar with the game at all so I do not
have a best practice for paring down the movelist.


5.  Are there any other future plans?

Yes.  Most of these that are already made could still use some sort of tweaking, optimization, or artwork cleanup.  I would also like to expand the titles
available which can be done with the already present assets.